I’ve had many people asking about my sales technique and how I handle the first call. After answering this a dozen times and it worked for those developers, I wanted to share how I approach cold calling and the best way to start the call and navigate the conversation and make a sale.
by Citrous_Oyster
EDIT: I am in the US and i primarily call small businesses. They are a very underserved market with terrible websites and terrible support. Cultural and geographic differences may vary experiences.

EDIT: when I say I’m a stay at home dad in my initial phone call, obviously that’s not universal. That’s an example of injecting something personal about yourself so they can get a little glimpse of who you are in a short amount of time. Instantly separates me from scammers. And opens me up for conversation about our kids. You don’t need to do this. You can just say “web developer working for myself” or something to that nature.

After years of freelancing and learning from thousands of calls, here’s by best advice.

Just Don’t try to sound like a salesman. Don’t ask how their doing or say that “I can help you generate more leads through your website.” You will sound just like every other spam call they get. Don’t immediately try to sell them. Introduce yourself first and offer help. Here’s how mine goes

“Hey, is this (business name?)”

They confirm and ask what they can do for you or whose calling and I say

“Awesome, we’ll my name is ryan and I’m actually a stay at home dad web developer and I found you on google and poked around the site and saw it’s a pretty standard Wordpress site and I wanted to call and see if I can make you something better”

Don’t say things like “generate more leads” and stuff like that. They hear that so much from other spammers calling them that it has lost all meaning to them. You sound like them so they treat you like them and hang up.

And don’t try to say you will make tweaks to their site either. Alot of times they hate their site. Why would they pay someone to make tweaks they can just do themselves? What can YOU do that they can’t and that’s better?

First you need to be able to answer the question “what do you do that’s better?” This questions will inevitably come up. THIS is where you sell yourself. Not at the beginning. It almost always comes down to this so you better have your Answer and it better not be “well I can help you generate more leads from a better optimized website and grow sales….” blah blah blah who gives a shit. It’s all fluff. It’s what they expect to hear from a salesman. Don’t sell them on expectations or promises. Sell them on cold hard facts.

When they ask me what I do that’s better, I say

“I custom code everything like by line. No page builders. This makes my work better than page builders because they load instantly and make google happy. Last May google launched its core vitals update that heavily favored mobile performance and speed in their search rankings. That’s where I shine. Page builders have bloated code, prone to hacking, and very messy code. Right now, your site scores (I checked theirs before calling) 34/100. This is terrible and your site won’t really rank as well as it could. My sites score 98-100 and are literally as fast as they can be, there’s no wasteful code. Every like was built with purpose. Over time this makes your website more favorable with google and will eventually rank higher and outperform to your competition who are almost guaranteed to be using a page builder or cheap Wordpress theme that’s poorly built and not optimized for mobile experiences like mine are. Mine is a custom built site designed to convert traffic into customers by satisfying Google’s metrics and making the best perforating mobile site you can have. And for Every second of load time, you lose more and more customers who didn’t want to wait. When it loads instantly, we don’t lose those people. They can get to the site and convert into a sale instead of bailing after a few seconds. I also do with this a very specific formula in which i structure my website to maximize conversions. There’s a specific order you place your content in and how you write about it that funnels visitors into a sale. They’re called website conversion funnels, and I use their principles to design more effective websites. You can’t just throw whatever you want up and expect it to work. It’s all very calculated, purposeful, and deliberate. That is the difference between me and the page builders or other people who might have called you this month. I actually care about the work I put out and put thought into it. I even hire a copywriter to write all your content for you that is keyword researched and designed to be engaging, get picked up in search engines, and get people to contact you.”

When a client is educated on what page speed is and why it matters they can infer themselves that that means better ranking and more leads.

My opening is perfect because it’s short, establishes me as a real person, and a family man like them putting myself out there to support them. They respect it. I’ve had many who after I made my pitch say “you know I normally hang up on people like you, but I like you. You’re real and I love your authenticity.”

I speak to them like a friend. Not a client or a sale. Asking “how are you today” is a waste of their time. Time is money for them and generic pleasantries like that feel forced, just get to the gist of it. You don’t have much time to keep their ear. The slightest bit of suspicion and they’ll hang up.

I explain what I do that’s better and why it’s better rather than going straight into “generate more leads and increase sales” because they’ve heard it all before. Let them come to that conclusion themselves when you explain your work and what it does better than what they have now. And do it in a way that they can understand.

Don’t be afraid to talk about yourself either and be Honest. Some have asked me how I found them and I tell them. I say “well I decided to call Texas today and looked for businesses on Yelp with no website or bad ones that definitely need help who also have good reviews in the last year because I don’t want to work with bad people. I hand picked everyone I call who I’d like to work with that I think I can help. And that’s how I found you, your reviews are awesome and people love the work you do. You’re someone I’d love to help and work with myself.”

Right away with that answer they see my authenticity, honesty, and process, and now it’s not me randomly calling numbers and they’re just next in my list. They were picked for a reason. They made the cut. You did your homework on their business and website and determined they can benefit from what you do. This make you seem more deliberate in your work. You only call those who you think need help and who are good owners.

Honesty, authenticity, transparency, and talking to them like a friend and not a client makes all the difference.

Then there’s the actual product and service. They can’t edit custom coded sites. So I sell myself as a service.

Once they’re interested, they ask, “alright we’ll what’s something like this gonna cost?” And I tell them “$0 down $150 a month, includes hosting, unlimited edits, 24/7 support, analytics, and lifetime updates. I do everything for you so you don’t need to worry about it ever. I’m your personal web developer in your pocket, six month minimum contracts”

This is where I close most of my sales. They’re expecting thousands of dollars. This is a low financial risk for them. They’re hesitant to spend that kind of money ($2500+) all at once from some dude that just called them. So when they hear my $150 a month, they get interested because they’ve never been offered that before. When they ask what happens when they cancel I tell them “you keep your domain, but the design and code stay with me. You’ll have to start over with someone else. Which means you you’ll he 6 months behind where you could have been if you stayed longer with me. It takes bout 6-12months for google to properly rank your site, so after six months I think you’ll start to see some results from the site and stick around. I’m looking for people who understand websites are an investment for the long term. It’s not a turn key product. It’s some that takes time to build up and start returning on your investment. So if you don’t see yourself sticking around for too long or are not 100% on board then I might not be a good fit for you and I don’t want to waste your time and money if you aren’t 100% committed to the site and working with me”

This is another opportunity to show your integrity. You don’t want to waste their money, so you basically are telling them that if they aren’t 100% sure of their decision that they shouldn’t sign with you. That right there is you putting their needs above yours and they will recognize that. It’s not about the sale for you to them now. It’s about being the best fit for them. Now you’re flipping the narrative. It’s not about you selling them a website, it’s more than that. it’s about them wanting to work with you. It’s a partnership. They’re tired of getting shitty sites from developers who ghost them. By selling yourself as a service and them having your personal phone number to call if they need anything is the cherry on top. You’re there for them. And you stand by your work. THAT is what they want. It’s a major pain point for small businesses. They actually want someone to manage it for them, they didn’t know they had the option because they’ve never been offered it before. That makes them willing to spend $150 a month on you.

And when they ask me why they should be paying me $150 a month indefinitely I tell “think about it this way, if the website is successful, how much is a new client worth?” For trades people it’s hundreds to tens of thousands of dollars. I then say “if the website is bringing in just one new customer a month, it more than pays for itself. Now imagine it brings in 10 or more. At the end of the day, the website is an asset of your business. You spend $150 a month on it, and it brings in more than $150 a month in value to the business. When you take that away, any value that my work was bringing will stop and you’ll have to start over and rebuild that value with another site and it might even be as effective and will bring in new clients but not nearly as many clients as mine was doing. Plus that $150 a month is more than just the cost of the site. It’s access to me. It’s a retainer to call me with any questions and make all your edits. It’s peace of mind, I’m here for you when you need me so you don’t have to waste your time figuring this stuff out when it could have been better spent on the business making you money instead did costing you money.”

I know not everyone can sell A site for $150 a month. But it’s a HUGE selling point in my business. I have over 46 monthly paying clients right now. It adds up. I do less than 5-10 hours of edits a year. That’s it. It’s all true passive income. The key is to use templates. I’ve built my own website templates in html and css only that I reuse for new clients. I have like 15 template designs and I mix and match between them to create new sites too. So I can turn around a $150 a month site in a only a few hours. Not a lot of time commitment. I invest in copywriting ($200) for the home page and bank on them staying past 6 months and making pure profit every month. I’ve had clients with me for over 3 years now. Their sites score 98-100 page speed and they’re having the best years of sales on record.

I also help optimize their google business page and tell them they need 20-30 reviews. Get them from every client, friend, or family member they can. It really helps a lot. More reviews = more visibility in the google maps search results. And your website also helps boost your profiles appearance in the results. I tell them all of this.

But those are my secrets. That’s how start and close all my sales. Make a personal connection if you can, be real, be genuine, don’t sound like those fake servers at chain restaurants who put on a big smile and cheery tone, talk to them like a friend, and that you just wanna help. Don’t be afraid to be honest or open about yourself or personal life. Don’t just say you’ll increase sales, tell them HOW you’ll do it and why only YOU can do it and why it matters.

Side note, I also send hand written personal Christmas cards to my clients and it’s one of those cards that has the spot for a picture of your family. Every year I take family Christmas pictures and send those cards to my clients thanking them for having faith in me, and supporting our family this year and being part of our growth as well and and referencing any personal calls we had and inside jokes and wishing them another great year for them as their family. It’s the personal touch like this that keeps people staying. You’re a person to them. Not a company. They can see your family growing every year and the fact that you took the time to write and send a personal card means a lot. No other company will do that or can do that. But you can. Because you care, and it’s that same care you put into your work and is a reflection of you and your business, your service, and product. It’s a reaffirmation of the promise you never had to make to them. You don’t have to say you’re there for them and you care, gestures like the card show more than any promise could.

It’s not a sales technique that I use. It’s a peoples technique. I create connections with my Clients built on honesty and authenticity. I treat them like people, not like a sale. And I really do care about what I do and that shows in my work and my passion on the phone. Be comfortable in who you are and what you do. Be honest. And be yourself.

Feel free to ask any questions. Hope this helps close a few more sales for anyone.

